README.md, before:

# Some demonstrations for algebraic surfaces


Better documentation will be written later.

There are currently two scripts here:

## Projections of surfaces, and cusps of the branch curve

 This script demonstrates how **generic projections** of smooth
  surfaces from the projective space P<sup>3</sup> give **cusp points** on a branch curve (Arnold et al[^4] call this singularity a "Whitney pleat", paragraph 1.6, page 14 )

# Pinch points of algebraic surfaces

This script visualizes the pinch point of an algebraic surface
(which is locally formally isomorphic to the Whitney umbrella surface)([Wikipedia: Pinch point][1], [Wikipedia:Whitney umbrella][2];
 Griffiths and Harris[^3], Chapter 4, paragraph 6,  "Ordinary Singularities of Surfaces"; Arnold et al[^4]-- Part I, paragraph 1, page 24.)

## References
 [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinch_point_(mathematics)
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitney_umbrella

 [^3]: Phillip Griffiths, Joseph Harris, "Principles of Algebraic Geometry", <br>
 Chapter 4, paragraph 6,  "Ordinary Singularities of Surfaces",  <br>
 page 617 (2011 ed.) --  <br>
 point of view of algebraic geometry;

 [^4]: Vladimir Arnold et al,  <br>
 Singularities of Differ entiable Maps, Volume 1, <br>
 Classification of Critical Points, Caustics and Wave Fronts, 2012,  <br>
 point of view of Singularity theory.

The scripts are written in the [*surf* programming language](https://surf.sourceforge.net/) 

**Sample output on YouTube**

* [ Cusp formation, semi-transparent version ](https://youtube.com/shorts/NIyOA3bNZXM)
* [ Cusp formation, non-transparent version ](https://youtu.be/DXoM6hAJSo8 )
* [ Whitney umbrella / pinch point of a surface, animated](https://youtu.be/OysHV_xufnU )

## Some previews

### Formation of a cusp:

 ![image: Formation of a cusp](formation-of-a-cusp-on-a-branch-curve/some-frames/transparent.005.jpg)

### Formation of a cusp:

 ![image: Formation of a cusp,
animation](https://drive.usercontent.google.com/download?id=1hzUZ8fKbLFwHHnKDeP1RyFnHtVDnrf44&export=download&authuser=0)

 ![image: Formation of a cusp, animation 2](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hzUZ8fKbLFwHHnKDeP1RyFnHtVDnrf44/view?usp=sharing)

### Pinch point:

 ![image: Pinch point](whitney-umbrella.animated/some-frames/158.jpg)

**Usage**

For the formation of a cusp, (semi-transparent variant):

```bash
      $ cd formation-of-a-cusp-on-a-branch-curve/transparent
      $ surf-alggeo-nox transparent.surf 
      $ cd frames
      $ ./animate-with-ffmpeg-to-mp4.sh
      $ mv -v animated.mp4  whitney-umbrella.mp4
```
For the pinch point / Whitney umbrella:

```bash
      $ surf-alggeo-nox whitney-umbrella.surf
      $ cd frames
      $ ./animate-with-ffmpeg-to-mp4.sh
      $ mv -v animated.mp4  whitney-umbrella.mp4
```

**Requirements**

   * surf

   * ffmpeg  (for creating animations)

**Installing surf and ffmpeg **

In the Ubuntu derivatives, 
```bash
   # apt install -y  surf-alggeo-nox  
   # apt install -y  ffmpeg
```

Commit message:

improving README.md: GIF animation at Google Drive

README.md, after:

# Some demonstrations for algebraic surfaces


Better documentation will be written later.

There are currently two scripts here:

## Projections of surfaces, and cusps of the branch curve

 This script demonstrates how **generic projections** of smooth
  surfaces from the projective space P<sup>3</sup> give **cusp points** on a branch curve (Arnold et al[^4] call this singularity a "Whitney pleat", paragraph 1.6, page 14 )

# Pinch points of algebraic surfaces

This script visualizes the pinch point of an algebraic surface
(which is locally formally isomorphic to the Whitney umbrella surface)([Wikipedia: Pinch point][1], [Wikipedia:Whitney umbrella][2];
 Griffiths and Harris[^3], Chapter 4, paragraph 6,  "Ordinary Singularities of Surfaces"; Arnold et al[^4]-- Part I, paragraph 1, page 24.)

## References
 [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinch_point_(mathematics)
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitney_umbrella

 [^3]: Phillip Griffiths, Joseph Harris, "Principles of Algebraic Geometry", <br>
 Chapter 4, paragraph 6,  "Ordinary Singularities of Surfaces",  <br>
 page 617 (2011 ed.) --  <br>
 point of view of algebraic geometry;

 [^4]: Vladimir Arnold et al,  <br>
 Singularities of Differ entiable Maps, Volume 1, <br>
 Classification of Critical Points, Caustics and Wave Fronts, 2012,  <br>
 point of view of Singularity theory.

The scripts are written in the [*surf* programming language](https://surf.sourceforge.net/) 

**Sample output on YouTube**

* [ Cusp formation, semi-transparent version ](https://youtube.com/shorts/NIyOA3bNZXM)
* [ Cusp formation, non-transparent version ](https://youtu.be/DXoM6hAJSo8 )
* [ Whitney umbrella / pinch point of a surface, animated](https://youtu.be/OysHV_xufnU )

## Some previews

### Formation of a cusp, one shot:

 ![image: Formation of a cusp](formation-of-a-cusp-on-a-branch-curve/some-frames/transparent.005.jpg)

### Formation of a cusp:

 ![image: Formation of a cusp, animation in Google Drive](https://drive.usercontent.google.com/download?id=1hzUZ8fKbLFwHHnKDeP1RyFnHtVDnrf44&export=download&authuser=0)

  (works in some browsers)

### Pinch point:

 ![image: Pinch point](whitney-umbrella.animated/some-frames/158.jpg)

**Usage**

For the formation of a cusp, (semi-transparent variant):

```bash
      $ cd formation-of-a-cusp-on-a-branch-curve/transparent
      $ surf-alggeo-nox transparent.surf 
      $ cd frames
      $ ./animate-with-ffmpeg-to-mp4.sh
      $ mv -v animated.mp4  whitney-umbrella.mp4
```
For the pinch point / Whitney umbrella:

```bash
      $ surf-alggeo-nox whitney-umbrella.surf
      $ cd frames
      $ ./animate-with-ffmpeg-to-mp4.sh
      $ mv -v animated.mp4  whitney-umbrella.mp4
```

**Requirements**

   * surf

   * ffmpeg  (for creating animations)

**Installing surf and ffmpeg **

In the Ubuntu derivatives, 
```bash
   # apt install -y  surf-alggeo-nox  
   # apt install -y  ffmpeg
```
